Java is Object Oriented. However it is not considered as pure object oriented as it provides support for primitive data types (like int, char, etc)

The Java codes are first compiled into byte code (machine independent code). Then the byte code is run on Java Virtual Machine (JVM) regardless of the underlying architecture.

Java does not provide low level programming functionalities like pointers. Also, Java codes are always written in the form of classes and objects.

We always pass references in Java. One more example, since there are no pointers, bad memory access is also not possible.

When compared with Python, Java kind of fits between C++ and Python. The programs written in Java typically run faster than corresponding Python programs and slower than C++. Like C++, Java does static type checking, but Python does not.

First one is Statically typed language where each variable and expression type is already known at compile time. Once a variable is declared to be of a certain data type, it cannot hold values of other data types.
Example: C, C++, Java.
The other is Dynamically typed languages. These languages can receive different data types over time.
Example: Ruby, Python

Java is statically typed and also a strongly typed language because in Java, each type of data (such as integer, character, hexadecimal, packed decimal, and so forth) is predefined as part of the programming language and all constants or variables defined for a given program must be described with one of the data types.

Java has two categories of data:
Primitive Data Type: such as boolean, char, int, short, byte, long, float and double
Non-Primitive Data Type or Object Data type: such as String, Array, etc.

Non-Primitive Data Type or Reference Data Types
The Reference Data Types will contain a memory address of variable value because the reference types won’t store the variable value directly in memory. They are strings, objects, arrays, etc.

String: Strings are defined as an array of characters. The difference between a character array and a string is the string is terminated with a special character ‘\0’.