Java - Lecture 2 - May 17

we can write n number of classes in java
we can shift 1000 number of files from one way to another

we can zip all the classes and form one .jar file
.jar contains all the .class files

.war - web archieve
.jar + .jar + html + properties + js files - .war (we can see in advance java)

ide provides you to write the code in faster way. we can write the code in notepad also

package while creating the project - logical grouping of all the classes and folders

lets we havn't put the semicolon at the end. eroor shows.. who is responsible for that.. the ide or some thing else = java compiler is giving the error.. at same the it is compiling and ide is showing the error

javac is the command for compile the code when we are writing the code in notepad.
but we are using ide then it is not need for us to do every time javac.. ide will do that

it we compile the java code then it generate the .class file.. we just compile it not run it. the .class is in com->java->prac => HellowWolrd.class

procudeure - main focus on getting the result
oops - maintaingn the data, each object has its own state, storing the data

storing data - variable - Computer ram
allocates some mem from ram and variable has reference to that some part called block

primitive datatype = int char, string, boolean
reference datatype = class instatnce (more clear later on)

Class is basically the skeleton (what type of methods and properties) - gives you the charachstichs - hold your data
data member / properties - hold the data (eys, nose) 
member methods - functions (perfodm some for you)

state - what are the value does the data members holds
behavious - what actions he can perform

so for the swathi and manish has different state and different behaviours - so we need to create the instances- this belongs to object
objects are the instance of class

class - human beings
object - prashuk, manish, swathi (instatnce) - 
state - if i see and manish doesn't see (each object has its own properties/state)
behavious - manish is walking, (he is using his own legs / or own properties).. each object is using their own properties to do the task

create the class - todays assignment (define atleast 5 class)